
Always data speaks with each person or organization differently.

Ex: We have last 10 years rain data in Praksam distict with location, time, date, rain centimeters, mandal, village, affect, people effected, homes destroyed, etc

If you are rural and urban town planning engineer, you need 
	1. How many homes collapsed?
	2. Is there any drinage problem occured?
	3. Is water stayin in village itself?

If you are appolo hospital owner
	1. How many people affected due to home collapse?
	2. How many people affected due to weather changes like fever, cold etc?
	3. Do we have bones specialist and corresponding medicines?
	4. Do we have seasonal fever specialist and corresponding madicines?



Statistics:
----------
Statistics is a mathematical science of collecting, cleaning, exploring, analysing and interpretation of data.
Data should be measured. We are using statics on data to make better decisions.


What is data?
Data is the collection of facts, values or observations about something.
Data is raw information collected for analysis or decision making.


What are different types of data?
1. Qualitative data
2. Quantitative data


What is Qualitative data?
Qualitative data is data that describes qualities or categories. It is usually written in words, not numbers.
Ex:
Color → Red, Blue, Green
Gender → Male, Female
Food type → Veg, Non-veg
Feedback → Good, Bad, Average


What is Quantitave data?
Quantitative data is data that describes quantities or numbers. It is written in numerical form.
Ex:
Age (25 years)
Height (170 cm)
Number of children (2)


What are different types in qualitative data?
1. Nominal data
2. Ordinal data


What is nominal data?
Nominal data which can be distinct categories and no ranking implied. No arithematic operation.
Ex: Gender, colors, blood group


What is ordinal data?
Ordinal data which can be distinct categories and ranking implied. No arithematic operation.
Ex: Ranks (1st, 2nd, 3rd), ratings (Good, Better, Best)


What are different types of quantitative data?
1. Discrete data
2. Contineous data


What is discrete data?
Data that can be measured in whole numbers
Ex: Number of students, number of cars


What is contineous data?
Data that can be measured in decimal numbers
Ex: Height, weight, temperature, time


What is Interval data?
Interval Data where difference between measurements is meaningfull quanity but don't have true zero point. Addition and substraction can be done
ex: temperature(at 0 temperature also some heat will be there)


What is Ratio data?
Ratio data where difference between measurements is meaningfull quantity and have true zero point. All arithematic operations can be done.
Ex: age, weight 


What is population?
population is the complete set of individuals, items, or data points that you want to study or draw conclusions about


What is sample?
Sample is a subset of population.


What are different types of sampling techniques?
1. Probability sampling
2. Non-probability sampling


What are different types of probability sampling techniques?
1. Random sampling
2. Stratified sampling
3. Systematic sampling


What is random sampling?
It is a common practise in sample collection. There is no logic or priority to choose sample data.
This technique used when entie population has equal chance of getting selected.


What is stratified sampling?
Divide population into sub groups based some characteristics. It should be non overlapping groups.
ex: gender based, age group based


What is systamatic sampling?
There should be logic for selecting sample.
ex: every 5th person in a class is my sample data.


what is convinence sampling:
This is a type of sampling with biased


What are different types of statistics?
1. Descriptive Statistics
2. Inferential Statistics


What is descriptive statistics?
Describe main characteristics and summary of data.


What is inferential statistics?
Making predictions about a population using sample data.


What are classifications of data analytics?
1. Descriptive Analytics (What happened?)
2. Diagnostic Analytics (Why did it happended?)
3. Predective Analytics (What will happen?)
4. Prescriptive Analytics (How can we make it happen?)


What are different types of descriptive statistics?
1. Measure of Central Tendancy
2. Measures of Dispersion


What is measure of central tendancy?
The data values are present in middle of distribution or towards end.


What are different measures of central tendancy?
1. Mean
2. Median
3. Mode


What is mean?
Average of all value of the data
Ex: 2, 3, 6, 9, 1, 6
mean = (2 + 3 + 6 + 9 + 1 + 6) / 2


What is Median?
Middle number of data after making sorted. If length is even then average of middle two numbers.
Ex: 1, 2, 3, 6, 6, 9
median = (3 + 6) / 2


What is mode?
Most frequently occuring value in the dataset
Ex: 2, 3, 6, 9, 1, 6
mode = 6


What is measures of dispersion?
Describes variability in dataset


What are different measures of dispersion?
1. Range
2. Variance
3. Standard Deviation


What is range?
Difference between largest and smallest value after making ascending oreder.
Ex: 1, 2, 3, 6, 6, 9
range = 9 - 1 = 8


What is Inter Quartile range?
Difference between Q3 and Q1
IQR = Q3 - Q1


What is variance?
Variance describes how much a random variable differs from its excepted value.
The average of squared difference between mean. If we are finding variance of sample then n-1.
Ex: 2, 3, 6, 9, 1, 6
mean = (2 + 3 + 6 + 9 + 1 + 6) / 2
variance = (x-mean)**2 / n


What is standard deviation?
Standard deviation describes difference between each element from the mean.
standard deviation = sqrt of variance 



What is probability?
Probability is the measure of how likely an ever occur. It is ratio of desired outcomes to total outcomes



What are different probability distributions?
1. Discrete distributions
	- Binomial distribution
	- Poission distribution
	- Geometric distribution

2. Contineous distributions
	- Normal distribution
	- Uniform distribution
	- Exponential distribution
	- Gamma distribution


What is binomial distribution?
Used to find the number of successes in a fixed number of trials.
Example: Number of heads in 10 coin tosses.


What is poisson distribution?
Used to find the number of events occurring in a fixed time or area.
Example: Number of calls received per hour.


What is geometric distribution?
Used to find the number of trials needed to get the first success.
Example: Number of tosses until the first head appears.


What is normal distribution?
A bell-shaped symmetric distribution around the mean.
Example: Heights of students.


What is uniform distribution?
All values in a given range are equally likely.
Example: Random number between 1 and 10.


What is exponential distribution?
Models time between two successive events.
Example: Time between arrivals of customers.


What is gamma distribution?
Models waiting time for multiple events to occur.
Example: Time taken to serve several customers in a bank.


What is structured data?
Data which is organized in fixed format and predefined schema.
Ex: Excel files, Database tables etc


What is unstructured data?
Data which is not organized in fixed format and no predefined schema
Ex: test files, word document, audio, video etc


What is semi-structured data?
Data which is not fully organized in fixed format but predefined scema
Ex: Json, xml, html etc


What is difference between analysis and Analytics?
Analysis and analytics both looks same but they are different. Analysis will focus on past data and analytics will focus on future data.
Analytics is a scientific process of transforming data into insights for better decision making.


what are different types of variables?
1. Categorical
2. Numerical


What is categorical varibles?
Varabiles which can be grouped based on it's category
ex: gender, marriage status, colors etc


What are numerical variables?
1. Descrete
2. Continuous


What is descrete variables?
Discrete variable one in which no value can be assumed between two given values. Variables which can be counted as integers.
ex: no.of childrens, no.of bugs etc.


What is continuous variables?
Continuous variable on in which any value can be assumed between tow given values. Variables which can be counted as float numbers.
ex: weight, time etc.

































































