
Data analysis steps:
--------------------
1. Load data in dataframe
	- better to load required columns if you have idea on data else load all columns
2. Cleaning data
	- check data types of data, make change if necessary
	- remove or fill null values
	- identify and remove outliers, if outliers are very extreme values and cause data uncertainity then remove outliers first then work on null values.


 






Pandas is a python library which used to loading, cleaning, exploring, manipulate and analyze data.

Covariance is how two variables change together.

Correlation measures strength and direction of relation, it is alsowan between -1 and 1.

Pandas Series is used to analyze one dimentional array.

Pandas DataFrame is used to analyze two dimentional array.


If we use [] in pandas with loc or iloc then it will return dataframe.

python dict and json looks same but there is a key difference
dict datatype is dict and json is str.
dict keys can be str, int, tuple etc but json keys always str.
dict key, values can be specified in single or double codes but json key, values are double codes only.

dropna() returns new dataframe and will not change original dataframe.
for updating in original data frame keep inplace = True.

fillna() used to update null values with specified value.
This also return new dataframe, if we keep inplace = True then it will update in original dataframe.

axis in pandas will determines operation is on rows or columns
if axis=0 then operation is on rows
if axis=1 then operation is on columns

If missing data is small means < 5% and if we remove then no impact on data then droping is fine else filling null values is best option
Identify which all are essential columns. Some times null values are in non-essessential columns, better to remove those columns insted of records and make sure no impact on data
Some times null values are in non-recoverable columns like phonenumber, There is no way to fill phone numbers better to remove those records and make sure no impact on data
better to fill null values with mean or median if data type is integers and if data type is string then mode will work as categorical variable.

dropna function with how="any", it will delete if single null value, it is default value
dropna function with how="all", it will delte if all values are null



how to handle null and outliers and how to know normal distribution or scew 











